release.txt

                             GWM-VI Release Notes

     This file describes changes introduced into the GWM-VI suite of 
     programs with each official release; these changes may substantially 
     affect users.  For additional information about the GWM-VI suite of 
     programs, see readme.txt.

NOTE: Any use of trade, product or firm names is for descriptive purposes 
      only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S. Government.

o Version 1.0.2 09/17/2015

A bug was fixed in EXTRACT_BUD_SFR_DEPS that had caused streamflow leakage 
to be improperly read when streamflow leakage is selected as a state 
variable.  

A feature was added to allow repeat lines for reading the list of stress 
periods over which a decision variable (either flow type or external) 
applies as read by the DECVAR file.  The list of stress periods can now 
extend over multiple lines; an ampersand ("&") character at the end of an 
input line (with no preceding space) instructs GWM to read the following 
line as a continuation of the list. 

Development Notes: 

1. The procedure within GWM_SUBS used to write unique base-36 numbers for 
   internal identification of dependents was modified to write 3-digit 
   base-36 numbers rather than 2-digit numbers.

2. In MAIN_INI_WRITE_PREDDATA the field width used to write the number of 
   rows used in the Prediction_Data block in a scratch file was increased 
   from 6 to 9.

3. A new variable in GWM1STA3 holds the total number of state variables so 
   that the repeated calculation of this total can be avoided.

4. In August 2015, GWM files were moved to a new repository environment.  
   At that time the date stamp on all files was changed to 8/22/2015.

o Version 1.0.1 08/07/2014

A new variable called EpsQnet is now supported in the GWM-VI Control input 
file.  EpsQnet applies when MNW2 multi-node wells are used as flow-rate 
decision variables.  Please see Input_instructions_GWM-VI_v1.0.1.pdf in the 
doc folder for details.

In the earlier version of GWM-VI, certain messages, including some error 
messages, were not being saved.  Now, these messages are written to file
messages_from_gwmvi.txt.

The following bugs have been fixed:

1. Execution failed when there were no managed wells simulated by the 
   Well Package.

2. An infinite loop could happen under any of the following conditions:
    a. Modflow did not converge,
    b. A managed well cell (WEL or MNW2) went dry, or
    c. A constraint cell went dry.

3. Execution failed when flow-rate decision variables were simulated with
   the MNW2 Package and the original MNW2 input file specified 0 wells.

o Version 1.0.0 12/05/2013

This version is the initial release.
