SUMMARY OF GWM-VI


NOTE: Any use of trade, product, or firm names is for descriptive purposes only
      and does not imply endorsement by the U.S. Government.


ABSTRACT 

Groundwater Management–Version Independent (GWM–VI) is a new version of the 
Groundwater Management Process of MODFLOW. The Groundwater Management Process 
couples groundwater-flow simulation with a capability to optimize stresses on 
the simulated aquifer based on an objective function and constraints imposed on 
stresses and aquifer state. GWM–VI extends prior versions of Groundwater 
Management in two significant ways—-(1) it can be used with any version of 
MODFLOW that meets certain requirements on input and output, and (2) it is 
structured to allow parallel processing of the repeated runs of the MODFLOW 
model that are required to solve the optimization problem. GWM–VI uses the same 
input structure for files that describe the management problem as that used by 
prior versions of Groundwater Management. GWM–VI requires only minor changes to 
the input files used by the MODFLOW model. GWM–VI uses the Joint Universal 
Parameter IdenTification and Evaluation of Reliability Application Programming 
Interface (JUPITER-API) to implement both version independence and parallel 
processing. GWM–VI communicates with the MODFLOW model by manipulating certain 
input files and interpreting results from the MODFLOW listing file and binary 
output files. Nearly all capabilities of prior versions of Groundwater 
Management are available in GWM–VI. GWM–VI has been tested with MODFLOW-2005, 
MODFLOW-NWT (a Newton formulation for MODFLOW-2005), MF2005-FMP2 (the Farm 
Process for MODFLOW-2005), SEAWAT, and CFP (Conduit Flow Process for 
MODFLOW-2005). Banta and Ahlfeld (2013) provide sample problems that 
demonstrate a range of applications of GWM–VI and the directory structure and 
input information required to use the parallel-processing capability.


HISTORY

Please refer to file release.txt for the version history for GWM-VI.


SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS

The programs that make up GWM-VI are written in the Fortran 90 programming 
language.  The GWM-VI distribution file includes executable files that can be 
used on personal computers running various forms of the Microsoft Windows 
operating system.  See the file readme.txt for instructions for compiling the 
programs for use on computers that run other operating systems.


DOCUMENTATION

Banta, E.R., and Ahlfeld, D.P., 2013, GWM–VI—-Groundwater management with 
parallel processing for multiple MODFLOW versions: U.S. Geological Survey 
Techniques and Methods, book 6, chap. A48, 33 p., 
http://pubs.usgs.gov/tm/6a48/.


CONTACTS

Edward R. Banta
U.S. Geological Survey
Colorado Water Science Center
Mail Stop 415
Denver Federal Center
Lakewood, CO 80225
erbanta@usgs.gov

David P. Ahlfeld
Dept. of Civil and Environmental Engineering
University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA 01003
ahlfeld@engin.umass.edu
